---
title: Who We Are
---
Karissa Lightsmith has worked in early education for the last ten years. Her journey started at Bright Horizons as a "Twos" teacher. In her quest to learn more about the development of children this age, she found the Montessori method and was hooked. She worked both as an assistant and a guide at Northwest Montessori School. After training at the Montessori Institute Northwest and receiving her Masters of Education with a Montessori Emphasis, she knew she wanted to open her own school. Founding this school has been an adventure & a blessing and she is so grateful to all the people that have been a part of the journey so far. 

Jeremy Lightsmith is an entrepreneur; this is the fourth company he has started. Jeremy is a Montessori child himself and sees reflections of the Montessori method in his own business of coaching teams. His focus is to keep the business side of the school transparent and running smoothly, so the focus can be on your children!

From the beginning, the Lightsmiths knew, Montessori is different. Montessori is more than the funny word after ‘Lighthouse' in our name. In fact, Montessori is more than the name of an Italian woman or even an educational curriculum. Montessori is a movement! It is a way of thinking and a way of life. Their goal for Lighthouse Montessori is take part in this movement, providing children with tools for communication and compassion for the people and world around them. They hope this school is one more step towards a generation of peaceful, graceful, and conscious citizens of the world. 
