---
title: Classroom
---
The goal of our Montessori program is not to prepare your child for first grade. The goal of our program is to prepare your child to discover his or her place in our global society. We support the child during a vital period of development, when the child's natural love of learning and discovery have the possibility of becoming a way of life. Our program is the first step in creating responsible citizens who feel empowered to change the world, with the regard for the people and land around them to do so respectfully.

<a name="logistics"></a>

h2. THE LOGISTICS

We are a Dawn to Dusk school, open from 7:30am to 6pm. 

Our program is an all year, all day.
<a name="the_child"></a>

h2. THE CHILD

Our program is created for children aged 2 1/2- to 6-years-old. 

* We work with the natural ability of children this age to absorb their surroundings entirely and precisely (absorbent mind). Language, both written and spoken, is everywhere in the classroom. Great care is made by the adults to only model behavior that would be appropriate for the children to replicate.

* Children of this age go through sensitive periods, gathering information from their environment. In these periods, children strive to establish an internal sense of order, organize sensory information received everyday, master the language(s) spoken around them, and bring their physical bodies under their control. Our program has concrete materials and knowledgable adults to support the acquiescence of these essential skills during this vital and fleeting developmental period. 

* Still the 1st Plane of development that begins at birth, children of this age are seeking functional : Tying their own shoes, cleaning their own messes, solving their own conflicts, and choosing their own means of discovery. Our program will offer them ample time and support, guiding them to be the masters of themselves and the keepers of their environment.

<a name="the_experience"></a>

h2. THE EXPERIENCE

h3. Our Approach 

We strive to follow traditional, globally proven guidelines (see Montessori tradition) with an open mind, creating a unique community in partnership with our families.

h3. What This Looks Like

If you "visit":/observation to schedule our classroom, and we heartily encourage you to do so, you will see children freely moving around our room, limited only by reasonable social and safety limits and boundaries. These children choose work on their own and take it to tables and rugs to work with it for as long as they wish. Everything the children may need for an activity is accessible to them so the guide is freed to give lessons and be a resource instead of fetching missing pieces for this and that. 

h3. The Environment

Following the Montessori tradition, our school is a Casa di Bambini, or Children's House. Whether your child is with us for our morning work period or stays with us through the entire day, with our extended hours (7:30am to 6pm) and beautiful space, we are a safe, comfortable place for your child.  

The environment is set up with precision and attention to detail so unexpected discovery and creative adventure can happen inside its safe container. The materials are designed to continually build on each other, allowing children to find patterns and making each new, exciting work reassuringly familiar.  This method of indirect preparation builds on previous skills, ensuring each child's future success in working with increasingly difficult materials.

Social birth cared for through grace and courtesy lessons that establishes respect and willingness to work with the people around you.

Through the four areas of the classroom; Practical Life, Sensorial, Language, Math, children are given sensorial, concrete exploration of using, reading, and writing the English language. Counting, writing, and performing basic operations with numbers. caring for their own selves and their environments, organizing the sensorial experiences and getting precise language to describe and relate to their surrounding environments. activities that draw them into concentration and use their bodies in controlled purposeful ways.

High quality art materials with careful demonstration are provided for imagination and expression to flourish. Children are exposed to science through interacting with the natural materials such as glass, wood, metal, cloth that fill the classroom. Experiments with magnets, water, magnifying are provided through real activities such as baking and gardening. Introductions to geography, botany, and zoology are provided through interactive activities, maps, books, and pictures. 

h3. Adults 

At any time the guide is engaged in giving one on one lessons, carefully observing students, and keeping records of children's interests and skills to make plans for future lessons.

All adults in the classroom are highly trained. All Primary guides have their AMI diploma, attend yearly AMI refresher courses, and present courses to the parent community.  Classroom assistants receive continuing training in Montessori philosophy and materials.
