---
title: Get Involved
---
Lighthouse Montessori is about community.  Whether you are a parent with children at our school, an interested parent, a community member with some time to donate, or just an individual who wants to know more about Montessori education, we have a place for you.

h3. Are you a parent with kids going to our school?

We want you to be an active participant in your child's education and a part of our community of parents.

* You should have been added to the parent mailing list by Karissa. Use it to talk to other parents.
* You should have been invited to "Transparent Classroom":http://transparentclassroom.com by Karissa. Log in there to see :
** school calendar
** your child's progress
** pictures of your child in the school
** a directory of parents and staff
* Read more about Montessori on our "blog":/blog and on our "Resources":/resources page

h3. Are you thinking about sending your kids to our school?

We know this is an important decision for you, and we want to make sure you make the right choice.

* Take a look at our "admissions process":/admissions
* "Contact us":/contact_us to schedule an observation
* Read our "blog":/blog to find out more about our philosophy here at Lighthouse Montessori
* Join our "Community Mailing List":http://groups.google.com/group/lighthouse-montessori-community

h3. Would you like to volunteer to help us out?

Send us an e-mail at "info@lighthousemontessori.com":mailto:info@lighthousemontessori.com - we could use your help!

Or check out our "Volunteer Opportunities":http://lighthousemontessori.com/volunteer_oppurtunities page!

h3. Just curious about Montessori?

* Read our "blog":/blog to find out more about our philosophy here at Lighthouse Montessori
* Ask our Head Teacher, Karissa Lightsmith a question at "karissa@lighthousemontessori.com":mailto:karissa@lighthousemontessori.com
* Read more about Montessori on our "Resources":/resources page