---
title: Our Mission
---
h2. Vision

*We empower our children and the people who surround them to live in peace and service to the world.*

p(hint). This is the world we want to create and the world that we work for every day at Lighthouse Montessori school. We hope this is a world you are also excited to be part of creating.

h2. Mission

We believe...

|Children can change the world          |...so we collaborate across our parent/teacher community|
|                                       |...so we practice Montessori, Positive Discipline, & Nonviolent Communication everyday|
|Children have an innate desire to learn|...so we actively partner with them in their learning|
|                                       |...so we meet them where they are & intentionally guide them towards self-fulfilment|
|Social & emotional development is the foundation for learning|...so we practice compassion & conflict resolution|
|                                       |...so we connect with the children in every interaction|

h2. Mission Tests

p(hint). We'll know we're on the right track, because

# The majority of children show concentration in each work period. 
# We each give 2 affirmation / day, and see 2 affirmation from a child / day. 
# 2 circles between May 2014 - Aug 2014. 
# Staff rate trainings as valuable (6/7)+
# Montessori Families - talk to 3 tree, have a plan/ideas + have a name we like

h2. Simple Rules

p(hint). "Simple Rules":http://simplerulesfoundation.org/ lead to congruence in complex systems, like Schools :). These are the rules that guide our decisions.

h3. 1. Hear all voices

p(hint). This is about listening and really hearing

h3. 2. Sit on your hands

p(hint). When we are tempted to do something for someone that they can do for themselves, we will stop ourselves, even if it means sitting on our hands!

h3. 3. Ask for help, even if you don't need it

p(hint). We believe asking for help creates trust & community whether it's asking a child to help us wash the dishes, or asking a parent to help us in a bake sale.

h3. 4. Protect dignity

p(hint). To honor our belief in the capability + evolution of the peaceful child.

h3. 5. Take the next step

p(hint). Acknowledge what's in the way, define the need, and move forward. 

p(hint). Montessori believed that the job of guides is to both meet the child where she is but also to see the child not yet there and clear a pathway for her to bloom. We agree!

