---
title: Program Logistics
---


h2. Schedule

We are a Dawn to Dusk program, open from 7:30 AM until 6:00 PM, M-TH. We close every Friday at 3:30p for maintenance and staff meetings. 

We are open year-round, with the same staff and program offered at all times. 

h2. Tuition 2017-2018

|Extended Day 8:30a-3:30p|$1,155 / month|
|Dawn to Dusk 7a-6p|$1,350/ month|

* A 15% reduction is offered to younger siblings of current students. 
* A $100/month discount is offered for the kindergarten year.
* Tuition goes up every year, generally by ~ 3% to keep up with rent/salaries/etc.

h2. Contract Options

|10 Month|9/1 - 6/31|10 post dated checks (1st of each month)|
|12 Month|9/1 - 8/30|12 post dated checks (1st of each month)|
|Summer|7/1 - 8/30|2 post dated checks (1st of each month)|

* *The full year tuition is due regardless of absences, vacation or holidays.*
* Summer contracts are for incoming families as space permits

h2. Annual Fees

Registration Fee (per student and non-refundable, is applied to tuition of Kindergarten year)

|New Families with Application|$500|
|Returning Families, Due March 15th|$500|

h2. Food and Nap

The school provides three snacks per day; parents provide a sack lunch. 

Children nap onsite. 

<a name="parent_commitments"></a>

h2. Parent Commitments 

h3. Parent Education

Commit to attending a minimum of six out of twelve parent education nights a year. By learning more about Montessori methods we believe that you will be able to play a more active part in your child's education.

h3. Multi-Year Program

Commit to staying at Lighthouse Montessori through the Kindergarten year. Our Primary program is a three - four year curriculum, and we ask parents to commit to the full cycle leading up to 1st Grade in order to fully realize the benefit of a Montessori Primary education.

h3. Tuition & Annual Giving

Commit to a tuition and giving schedule that works for you.

----

Important: Enrollment in Lighthouse Montessori School is open to all students, regardless of race, color, religion, or national or ethnic origin. Lighthouse Montessori School considers the records of individual student's confidential information available to a child's parent(s) or guardian(s) by request. All governing documents, our conflict of interest policy, and our financial statements available to the public upon request. 
