---
title: Tuition
---
h2. Tuition 2015-2016

|Extended Day 8:30a-3:30p|$1,018 / month|
|Dawn to Dusk 7a-6p|$1,220 / month|

* A 15% reduction is offered to younger siblings of current students. 
* A $100/month discount is offered for the kindergarten year.
* Tuition goes up every year, generally by ~ 3% to keep up with rent/salaries/etc.

h2. Contract Options

|10 Month|9/1 - 6/31|10 post dated checks (1st of each month)|
|12 Month|9/1 - 8/30|12 post dated checks (1st of each month)|
|Summer|7/1 - 8/30|2 post dated checks (1st of each month)|

* *The full year tuition is due regardless of absences, vacation or holidays.*
* Summer contracts are for incoming families as space permits

Fees
* $25.00 late fee will be charged daily for any child picked up after their scheduled departure time. 
* $25.00 fee will be charged for any returned check.

h2. Annual Fees

Registration Fee (per student and non-refundable, is applied to tuition of Kindergarten year)

|New Families with Application|$500|
|Returning Families, Due March 15th|$500|

h2. Annual Giving

Annual giving is necessary to maintain the high standards of Lighthouse Montessori. 100% participation is expected. We ask each family to contribute (through donation or fundraising) a minimum of the equivalent of one months' tuition. A donation is tax deductible. A payment plan can be arranged.

----

Important: Enrollment in Lighthouse Montessori School is open to all students, regardless of race, color, religion, or national or ethnic origin. Lighthouse Montessori School considers the records of individual student's confidential information available to a child's parent(s) or guardian(s) by request.
