---
title: Volunteer Opportunities
---
We have three different ways to volunteer in the classroom.

h3. Weekly Volunteer Opportunities

Every Friday we have one time slot available for in class volunteering, 9:30 a.m. one week and 4:00 p.m. the next. You can take the time to do a large group activity or a one on one activity. 

Some examples of activities are:
* Baking fortune cookies.
* Occupation related presentations, ex. A nutritionist coming in to talk about healthy food.
* Sharing your skills with a foreign language with a language game.
* Playing a musical instrument.
* Sharing your families cultural traditions.
* Doing an art project.

To sign up for a volunteer slot you can find the sign up sheet underneath the sign out sheet near the door. If you have any questions or would like to brainstorm about volunteer opportunities please send and email to "garrett@lighthousemontessori.com":mailto:garrett@lighthousemontessori.com .

h3. Parent Task Baskets

Parent Task Baskets are opportunities to take home volunteer work. They will be little boxes or bags with a project inside of them. Everything needed for the project will be in a bag or box. The Parent Task Baskets will be located on top of the cubbies and you can sign them out to take home. Some examples of projects are cutting out laminated cards or sewing materials.

h3. Recurring Bi-monthly Saturday Events

Our Saturday events will be a chance to come in and work on projects that are on our schools wish list. They will be two to three hours in length and childcare will be provided. Some examples of upcoming volunteer events will be a deep cleaning of the classroom and installing a curtain around our storage area.