---
title: Montessori Education Is a Movement
author: Karissa Lightsmith
---
h2. Ways We Support the Movement

h3. Information

Through our blog, links to other websites, books, articles, and other resources we direct people towards information on Montessori education.

h3. Parent Education Nights

Offered once a month, these nights enable parents to know their children from a developmental standpoint, acquire tools to get through challenging times, and get ideas for setting up the home environment.

h3. Adding to Seattle's Montessori Community

We talk to other Montessori schools, administrators, and teachers. This way we can compare professional insights and continue positive relationships. We support other schools in their events and fundraisers. We believe the more Montessori schools the better!! 

Karissa would like to personally thank the directors of these three great schools for supporting her in her quest to open her own school, through Student Teaching opportunities, employment opportunities, and continued mentorship and guidence. 

Check out these great schools:
"Pacific Crest Montessori School":http://pacificcrest.org
"Northwest Montessori School":http://northwestmontessori.org
"Three Tree Montessori School":http://threetree.org

h3. Support and Promote the International Movement

Montessori is happening all around the world! The Association Montessori International, set up by Maria Montessori herself, has high "standards":http://amiusa.org/wp-content/uploads/2010/06/ami-school-standards-7092.pdf for the schools it accredits. We also have these standards and we want to prove to parents and other professionals that we live up to our standards. For this reason, we will be working towards our AMI accreditation in the first few years of our existence. Anyone can have an "AMI membership":http://www.montessori-ami.org/ to keep up with and support this global phenomenon, please consider joining today!